[Music]
Nam Mô Buddha Shakyamuni. I
respectfully ask you, teacher, a question: Regarding the
defense against harmful influences,
I am very happy to
practice mindfulness and silence today.
Before, I used to
communicate and talk a lot with
people, but gradually, as I gathered with others, I
felt less and
less inclined to talk much. Even with
friends and fellow practitioners who didn't share the same
views, I
still talked and shared a
lot. But with
outsiders, like friends, colleagues, or even
people close to me, I felt completely
hesitant to talk
to people, and I didn't know
what to say. I knew that if I spoke, it would only lead to
more conflicting thoughts and a lack of shared understanding.
Secondly, I was listening to people
talking, especially those who didn't practice
mindfulness.  I always have two conflicting
thoughts. First, when I
listen to people talking, they've observed my
actions, and I see that these
are unwholesome words and actions.
These are the actions, the gossip, the greed, anger, and
delusion of the
world. I want to share this with
everyone so they can recognize
these unwholesome actions. But then I
think, if I share, no matter what I say,
people won't understand or
empathize. Usually, in the end, I just
focus on that. The teacher
just taught me, but I don't know if that's
okay or
not. In reality, I
've tried
talking before, but I didn't see
that the more I talked, the more counterproductive it became.
Because my heart is only like that, I wonder if I
should continue. It's not that I'm wrong, but it's
really not okay now. I'm almost
limiting the development
of each person in my family. I apologize to my
sister for teaching me. Regarding family members, I'm
filial to my family.  It's true that
the practitioners here are very troublesome when they
sit down. They talk about this and
that, and if we agree with them, we can't. If we don't
say anything, we're afraid people
will say we're not sociable. But if we do say something, it stirs up trouble, and if we do,
karma is generated. I'm
afraid you, fellow practitioner, will
ask about it. But today, I have to admit,
this chicken is a young chicken, it tastes so sweet! Ah,
now what?
You said that death is death, and criticizing also leads to
death, right? We're about to give
birth, and above, it says, "Go ahead and speak, but don't be so
preoccupied with this stuff. You don't
know how to appreciate things, you just live a life of
self-denial and it's truly superstition." That's why we
're suffering now. At what time should we
choose not to say anything? If we
remember
it, we just choose not to say anything. Then we
'll see, the boiled vegetables are too sweet,
okay? And you're going to socialize, there's plenty of food on the table,
how can they avoid one karmic connection, and we'll
also start asking about one karmic connection. That means
we don't criticize others and we don't
teach people. If we consider the karmic connection not yet sufficient,
and we always hold the flag for people to follow, follow
us.  Avoid the awkward situation where
people are carrying flags and you follow them, but if
they say the chicken is delicious and everyone comments that
the chicken is delicious, then I think, "I acknowledge that you
went to the market today and chose a
new dish, this vegetable is okay, Minh
Tam, everyone is running around, yes, I acknowledge that you're the
best, you don't need to be skillful, what else is there when
I only have ice cream all day, is that okay?" Minh Tam, the
flag is already there, there's something to talk about.
Above, we give kindness to others,
and we must always give kindness. So, we
should skillfully praise people when
they do good things,
so it's a matter of luck, eight months,
things worth eight months, we must be
present. If we are at home,
right? For example, today, you or I
go home to take care of Mom or buy Mom something,
jealousy arises and we don't praise. That's the end of it, right? If you
want to have something to talk about, you must
have a kind heart. I acknowledge that you are
truly filial. I'm talking to Mom, you're the
best, Mom, is that okay? But I'm afraid to
say it to Tom, you'll say you
haven't circled me yet, okay, I can't say it,
listen, in our home we create  There are
countless reasons why it shouldn't be feared.
So, regarding balance, when talking,
remember that Buddhists hold the flag first,
not letting us hold the chess pieces.
These are ways people will steer the conversation in a
different direction. We should be the ones to
guide, meaning we should lead the
way, and others will follow our direction.
If we let others
guide us, they will follow
their direction, and we will become isolated.
Brother Quy, don't let yourself get
lost; you must lead the way first.